SPC Software - VisualSPC
Overview
To achieve the highest in quality you need to be able to readily gather your manufacturing data and organize it effectively. That's where effective Statistical Process Control (SPC Software) excels. The VisualSPC family of data collection SPC software from GEFanuc Automation is a world class solution in this area. As a company devoted to the Six Sigma approach to quality improvement, GEFanuc Automation understand that collecting accurate, timely data is the cornerstone of consistently high quality. And with 20 years of experience on the shop floor and in-depth application knowledge spanning a score of industries, they understand the real world challenges that must be overcome to streamline the data collection process.


SPC Software Features
This knowledge has shaped every feature of VisualSPC. Developed originally by GageTalker, the VisualSPC SPC Software suite is a complete Windows based approach to collecting, monitoring, and analyzing plant floor quality data. In addition to being extremely easy to use, VisualSPC is outstanding for its flexibility. This open software suite is easily customized without any programming, giving you the ability to match your data gathering system to your plant-floor processes. With VisualSPC, you control the process of translating enterprise-wide data into decision critical information.

SPC Software that gathers Data from Virtually Any Available Source
In addition to accommodating keyboard entry, VisualSPC capitalizes on GEFanuc's leadership in Open Connectivity you can connect to hundreds of gauging devices using the GagePort family of interface modules, import files directly from CMMs and other intelligent devices and harvest data from portable data collectors. Equally important, VisualSPC offers OPC connectivity to intelligent controllers, software applications, specialty gauging devices and a wide array of industrial communication networks and I/O systems.

	
SPC Software that creates the Operator Interface that Works Best for You
With VisualSPC, you can easily arrange your screens the way that makes it easiest for operators to collect and evaluate your data, using OLE to integrate your own graphics and text, incorporating selected statistical calculations and color coding information. By organizing screens that meet your needs, you can dramatically reduce operator training and implementation time.

Maximize Your Existing Investment
VisualSPC SPC software integrates smoothly with all major hardware and software devices found on the plant floor and integrates seamlessly into your existing networking architecture. As a result, you can incorporate VisualSPC without adjusting or compromising manufacturing processes perfected over the years.

With VisualSPC you can:
Select the data you want to collect and organize custom screens to reflect operator skills and plant floor characteristics with VisualSPC Designer.
Accommodate a wide variety of gauges and measuring devices through our industry standard GagePort technology.
Use the Zipper handheld data collector to collect data and automatically transfer the information into our standard database.
Import files generated by CMMs and other measuring systems directly into a standard database using VisualSPC Importer.
Access information residing on other devices and applications, via our OPC connectivity.
Evaluate variations in your measuring systems using VisualSPC MSA.
Track multiple categories of attribute data with VisualSPC Attributes.

Apply Powerful Analytic Tools
VisualSPC Analyst gives you the ability to apply a wide range of sophisticated statistical analysis strategies to your data. In fact, many other business tools may have links to this reliable program. You can also export your data into such industry-standard programs as Excel, Access, or MiniTab.

	
With VisualSPC you can:
Enhance enterprise connectivity through seamless integration with SQL Server or Oracle thanks to VisualSPC's support for ODBC standards.
Generate standardized reports using VisualSPC Reports or easily create customized reports for your needs.