CimWorks GageTalker Launches Software Suite for Machine Event Monitoring
Source: CimWorks, a GE Fanuc Company
CimWorks GageTalker Launches Software Suite for Machine Event Monitoring
For analyzing production processes, machine utilization, and downtime

CimWorks GageTalker (Kirkland, WA) has introduced VisualMEM (Machine Event Monitoring), a new suite in the CimWorks family of manufacturing software. VisualMEM is designed to provide answers to the following questions:

• Are my machines running? If not, why aren't they running?
• How well are they running?
• What adjustments need to be made for the greatest impact on downtime?

VisualMEM captures critical cycle time, maintenance and production information directly off the machines and organizes that information in a way that is useful for production and maintenance managers. Information is presented in color-coded, on-screen, real-time displays as well as in a large variety of reports useful for plant analysis and trouble-shooting.

Reports allow users to compare and analyze the productivity of a single machine, a group of machines, or an entire plant by day, week, month, or shift. Additional reports allow analysis of major causes of downtime.


On a single screen, current status of all machines in one area or in all areas can be seen. Color-coded icons let managers see which machines are running (green), down (red), and idle (blue). Details on the progress of any job can be obtained. Also managers can see how long it takes to make the part while the job is still running, providing a pretty good idea of when the job will be done. Status of parts made and how the machine has been running over the past few hours, shifts, or days is displayed.

While VisualMEM is tracking and recording machine usage (runtime), it also can help keep track of all maintenance tasks for each machine with on-screen and report indications of maintenance requirements.

An East Coast manufacturer using a downtime detail report in VisualMEM discovered that it was losing time during setup and material handling. The company was able to reduce its downtime on a single machine from 22% to 19% by adjusting its setup procedures, material handling, and machine speeds. With an average hourly rate per machine of $65, running 5 days a week, 24 hours a day, this reduction in downtime on a single machine will save the company $234 per week, $936 per month, and $11,232 per year.

CimWorks GageTalker helps manufacturers improve quality and reduce costs through its integrated product line, including DNC (Distributed Numerical Control), SPC (Statistical Process Control), gage interface, document management/control, shop-floor data collection, machine event monitoring, and industrial PCs. The company's emphasis on open architecture systems means that its products work with virtually any gage or third party software.

CimWorks, a GE Fanuc Company, 11415 NE 128th Street, Kirkland, WA 98034; phone: 800-955-7100